---
title: About
layout: page
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Today, the financial sector faces daunting computational challenges,
involving both an increased demand for performance and increased
transparency requirements. In addition, time-to-market is increasingly
important for financial applications, both by commercial software
developers and in-house.

The joint research center HIPERFIT attempts to solve the simultaneous
challenges of high transparency, high computational performance and
high productivity through an integrated approach of combining research
in financial mathematics, declarative domain specific languages,
high-level functional programming languages, and high-performance
systems.  Besides the research component, application experts from the
financial sector contribute cutting edge knowledge from their
respective fields to bear on problems transcending their own field of
expertise.

Funded by the [Danish Council for Strategic Research
(DSF)](http://en.fi.dk/councils-commissions/the-danish-council-for-strategic-research),
under grant no. 10-092299, the research center HIPERFIT was founded in
2010. The name HIPERFIT stands for Functional high-performance
computing for financial information technology. The center started as
a joint effort of [researchers](people.html) and selected [founding
partners from the financial industry](partners.html). It is open for
new collaborators from industry and commerce.

HIPERFIT stands for research in tailor-made expressive programming
languages, frameworks, tools and technologies for financial modeling,
and effective use of modern parallel hardware without compromising
correctness, transparency or portability.

[Research themes in HIPERFIT](researchthemes.html)

[Contact](contact.html)

