---
layout: front
title: Research Center for High Performance Computing in Financial IT
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Background

Today, the financial sector faces daunting computational challenges,
involving both an increased demand for performance and increased
transparency requirements. In addition, time-to-market is increasingly
important for financial applications, both by commercial software
developers and in-house.

The joint research center HIPERFIT attempts to solve the simultaneous
challenges of high transparency, high computational performance and
high productivity in an integrated approach of declarative domain
specific and high-level functional programming languages. The center
gathers research in different communities: mathematical finance,
programming languages and high-performance systems and application
experts from the financial sector contribute cutting edge knowledge
from their respective fields to bear on problems transcending their
own field of expertise.

Funded by the [Danish Council for Strategic Research
(DSF)](http://en.fi.dk/councils-commissions/the-danish-council-for-strategic-research),
under grant no. 10-092299, HIPERFIT stands for research in tailor-made
expressive programming languages, frameworks, tools and technologies
for financial modeling, and effective use of modern parallel hardware
without compromising correctness, transparency or portability.

The research center is hosted by the Department of Computer Science,
University of Copenhagen and includes a number of funding partners
from the Danish financial industry. The center is also open for new
collaborators from industry and commerce.