---
title: Student Projects
layout: page
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This page lists a series of suggested student projects within
HIPERFIT. For more information about the possibilities, please talk to
the appropriate contact persons.

### Bachelor Projects

### Project: Parallel Optimisation Methods for Futhark

This project aims at developing one or more numerical optimisation
methods for [Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org) and at investigating
the possibilities for parallelising the methods and contexts in which
optimisation occurs. In general, when _f : R^n -> R_ is a
high-dimensional function, finding the argument tuple that maximises
(or minimises) the function is considered an optimisation
problem. Depending on the properties of _f_ (e.g., convexity) and
whether it is feasible to compute the derivative of _f_ (with respect
to some location and some direction), different methods apply.

A project may involve identifying a real-world problem to solve (using
an optimisation method), for instance within economics or engineering,
and it will involve getting acquainted with using the
data-parallel programming language
[Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org), which makes it possible to run
data-parallel applications efficiently on GPUs.

Possible optimisation routines worth considering include routines such
as Nelder Mead and gradient descent.

Contact person: [Martin Elsman](http://elsman.com) (2021-06-16).

### Project: Solving Coupled Differential Equations in Futhark

Using [Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org)'s higher-order
parameterisation methods (e.g., higher-order functions and modules),
this project aims at developing generic routines for solving sets of
coupled differential equations in parallel (over sets of different
parameter sets).

Methods of interest include Euler's method, Heun's method, and other,
more involved, Runge-Kuta methods.

A project may involve identifying a real-world problem to solve, for
instance within economics or engineering, and it will involve getting
acquainted with using the data-parallel programming language
[Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org), which makes it possible to run
data-parallel applications efficiently on GPUs.

Contact person: [Martin Elsman](http://elsman.com) (2021-06-16).

### Project: Data-Parallel Interpretation of Numerical Code

Sometimes, it is beneficial to run in parallel (e.g., on a GPU) code
that is represented as input data (e.g., instructions for a stack
machine, perhaps generated by a Python program).

Using [Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org)'s support for simple
algebraic (non-recursive) datatypes, this project aims at
investigating the possibility for parallel execution of sequences of
stack machine instructions and to investigate possible uses of the
technique.

Possible use cases include analysis of fractal images and [recurrent equations](https://github.com/melsman/feigenbaum).

A project may involve identifying a real-world problem to solve, for
instance within economics or engineering, and it will involve getting
acquainted with using the data-parallel programming language
[Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org), which makes it possible to run
data-parallel applications efficiently on GPUs.

Contact person: [Martin Elsman](http://elsman.com) (2021-06-16).

### Project: Memory-Region Aware Task-Parallel Programming in Standard ML

This project aims at investigating the use of MLKit (a Standard ML
compiler that uses region-inference as the primary memory management
strategy) for implementing a set of task-parallel algorithms.

Combining a memory discipline such as region-inference with routines
for task-parallelism can be beneficial due to guarantees given by the
memory discipline that data-races cannot appear.  The MLKit compiler,
developed at DIKU, has recently been augmented with preliminary
support for writing task-parallel programs. This project aims at
experimenting with and evaluating this compiler extension and
perhaps compare its performance with the [MPL](https://github.com/MPLLang/mpl)
compiler, a derivative of MLton.

A project may involve identifying a real-world problem to solve, for
instance within economics or engineering, and it will involve getting
acquainted with writing programs in Standard ML (much similar to
writing F# or OCaml code).

Contact person: [Martin Elsman](http://elsman.com) (2021-06-16).


### Project: Interpreter for Futhark

As part of its research into parallel functional programming, HIPERFIT
has developed a programming language, [Futhark](http://futhark-lang.org), and an optimising
compiler targeting GPU execution.  However, *debugging* Futhark
programs is difficult, partly because of the purity of the language
(no `printf()` debugging), and partly due to the absence of good
tools.  This project is about developing a debugging-oriented
interpreter for the Futhark source language.

While Futhark already has an interpreter, it operates on the internal
optimised core language, which may diverge significantly from the
original source text.  Further, it has no amenities for tracing or
debugging.  We imagine that an interpreter can be implemented that
faithfully implements the semantics of the full source language, and
supports breakpoints, single-stepping, and tracing for printing out
program variables.

Some prior Haskell experience will be needed.

Contact person: [Cosmin Oancea](people.html) or [Troels Henriksen](people.html).

### Project: The HIPERFIT Portfolio Management Prototype

Please consult [the project background information](/pdf/HIPERFIT_PROTOTYPE_2016_ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION.pdf) and the [bachelor project teaser slides](/pdf/HIPERFIT_PROTOTYPE_2016.pdf).

Contact persons: [Danil Annenkov](people.html) or [Martin Elsman](people.html).

### Project: CUDA Backend for Futhark

As part of its research into parallel functional programming, HIPERFIT
has developed a programming language, [Futhark](http://futhark-lang.org), and an optimising
compiler targeting GPGPU.  Currently, the Futhark compiler generates
code using the OpenCL library.  Another popular library, CUDA, is more
widespread in scientific computing, and generated CUDA code may thus
be easier to integrate in existing systems.

This project is about writing a CUDA backend for the Futhark compiler.
Most of the optimisations are done at a higher level, and should be
reusable in the CUDA backend.  Performance of generated code should be
similar to that of the existing OpenCL backend, but we're open to
being surprised.

Contact person: [Cosmin Oancea](people.html) or [Troels Henriksen](people.html).

### Project: Efficient Histogram Computation on GPGPUs

The code below shows an example of histogram computation:
function "f" computes based on the current index and
input-array element several (key,value) pairs such as
the sum of values is 1. The (key,value) pairs are used
to update the histogram.

    do i=0, N-1
        (key1,key2,val1,val2) = f(i, a[i]);
        h[key1] += val1;
        h[key2] += val2; // where val1+val2 = 1.0
    enddo


The project is about doing this computation efficiently on GPUs.

Contact person: [Cosmin Oancea](people.html) or [Troels Henriksen](people.html).

### Project: Adding Function-Level Shape/Invariant Annotations to Futhark

As part of its research into parallel functional programming, HIPERFIT
has developed a programming language, [Futhark](http://futhark-lang.org), and an optimising
compiler.  This project is about allowing the user to annotate, at function
level, algebraic invariants between integer parameters, which for example,
may allow the compiler to accurately determine array shapes, and further
on to hoist allocations outside of recurrences.  Just to get an idea, an
annotated function can possibly look like:

    fun [([int,k1], char, [bool,k2]), k3]
        myFun(int M, int N, [[real, k4],M] arr)
                where { k1 < k2,
                        k3 in k2*k1 + N ... M,
                        k4 < M + N,
                        M >= MAX(2*N,0),
                        arr in N ... M-1 } =
        body of function

where k1, k2, k3, k4 are existentially qualified under the constraints
appearing in the where clause.


Contact person: [Cosmin Oancea](people.html) or [Troels Henriksen](people.html).


### Project: OpenMP Backend for a Data-Parallel Functional Programming Language

As part of its research into parallel functional programming, HIPERFIT
has developed a programming language, [Futhark](http://futhark-lang.org), and an optimising
compiler.  This project is about developing a compiler backend that
generates code using [OpenMP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenMP) to
achieve multi-core CPU parallelism.

Contact person: [Cosmin Oancea](people.html) (or [Troels Henriksen](people.html)).


### Project: Optimization of a Haskell Automatic Differentiation Library

Esben Halvorsen describes in his MSc project [Calculating Key Ratios
for Financial Products using Automatic Differentiation and Monte Carlo
Simulation](/pdf/ad_esben.pdf), how to construct a
Haskell framework for Automatic Differention (AD), which turns out to
be useful for calculating "the greeks" (key ratios) for financial
products. The framework has been implemented in Haskell and the
project report outlines a series of possibilities for optimizations,
including an improved representation of arrays. This project is about
investigating the possibilities for optimization of the AD framework,
possibly for pricing and calculating greeks on parallel hardware.

Supervisor: [Martin Elsman](http://www.elsman.com)
