---
title: 4th HIPERFIT Workshop: FHPC'2012
layout: page
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The fourth HIPERFIT workshop is affiliated with
[ICFP'2012](http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2012).

As our fourth workshop, HIPERFIT co-organises the [workshop on
Functional High-Performance Computing (FHPC 2012)](../fhpc12.html). This
new workshop aims at bringing together researchers exploring
declarative programming technology for large-scale and high
performance computations, on parallel systems such as multi-core
multi-processor systems, graphics accelerators (GPGPUs),
reconfigurable hardware (FPGAs), large-scale compute clusters or
combinations thereof.

Well in line with the HIPERFIT credo, FHPC aims to be a forum for new
and well-founded methodologies for programming such systems, which
address their inherent complexity and reconciles execution performance
with programming productivity. The aim of the meeting is to enable
sharing of results, experiences, and novel ideas about how high-level,
declarative specifications of computationally challenging problems can
serve as highly transparent, maintainable, and portable code that
approaches (or even exceeds) the performance of machine-oriented
imperative implementations.

As HIPERFIT co-organises the 2012 FHPC workshop, it comes with the
particular theme of computational finance, and particularly encourages
submissions with this background. Notwithstanding, the workshop
welcomes submissions from any other application domains as much as
general-purpose work on the theory and practice of declarative
approaches to high-performance computing.

