---
layout: post
title: "Dave Cliff"
category: news
tags: [Dave Cliff, visit]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[Dave Cliff](http://www.cs.bris.ac.uk/~dc), from the University of
Bristol, visited DIKU on May 5, 2011. He gave an exciting talk titled
"The Flash Crash of May 6th, 2010: WTF?". "[Flash
Crash](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2010_Flash_Crash)" refers to a
sudden drop and rise of the US stock market on May 6, 2010. Because of
algorithmic high-frequency trading, the Dow Jones index lost around 9
percent - and recovered within minutes! Dave Cliff gave us his view on
"large-scale socio-technical systems", argueing that society needs
"principled evaluation of systemic risk".

_Dave Cliff is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of
Bristol. He has more than 20 years of experience as a researcher in
computer science and complex adaptive systems. He has previously
worked in academic faculty posts at the University of Sussex, at the
MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab, and at the University of
Southampton. He also spent seven years working in industry: initially
as a senior research scientist at Hewlett-Packard Research Labs where
he founded and led HP's Complex Adaptive Systems Research Group; then
as a Director in Deutsche Bank's London Foreign-Exchange Complex Risk
Group. His research for HP included early work, in the mid-to-late
1990s, on novel decentralized management systems for utility-scale
("cloud") computing systems; as part of that work he invented the
Zero-Intelligence Plus (ZIP) adaptive automated trading strategy. In
2001 a team of researchers at IBM showed that ZIP algorithmic traders
consistently outperform human traders. In October 2005, Cliff was
appointed Director of the Â£10m EPSRC-funded five-year UK national
research and training initiative in the science and engineering of
Large-Scale Complex IT Systems (the LSCITS Initiative). He is author
or co-author on over 70 academic publications, and inventor or
co-inventor on 15 patents; he has undertaken advisory and consultancy
work for a number of major companies and for various departments of
the UK Government; and he has given around 200 keynote lectures and
invited seminars._
