---
layout: post
title: "2nd HIPERFIT workshop December 1st and 2nd"
category: news
tags: [workshops]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Preparations are under way at full steam, so it is time to announce
our 2nd HIPERFIT workshop, which will take place in Copenhagen on
December 1-2, 2011.

While our first workshop was addressing partners and faculty, this
time we target a broader audience. We have invited members of our
advisory board and other guests, gathering 10 invited presentations
and two special talks (DIKU talk and COPLAS talk series). Our speakers
are international researchers from the different HIPERFIT areas,
ranging from from modern mathematical finance, via programming
language technology and modern approaches to parallel programming, to
high-performance systems.

Up-to-date information, the programme in detail, and a collection of
abstracts can be found at the workshop web page, please have a look!
You can also [download the call for participation as
pdf](pdf/CallForParticipation12-2011.pdf) or [as
txt](pdf/CallForParticipation12-2011.txt).

There will be no published proceedings, the meeting is intended to be
an interdisciplinary forum for discussion and networking. The workshop
is open to public, interested researchers and practicioners of all
related fields are invited to participate, meet and discuss with our
international speakers and guests. Participation is free of charge,
but for organisational purposes, a workshop registration is
required. Please fill out this [form to
register](http://www.diku.dk/begivenheder/2011/2nd_hiperfit/registration).

The 2nd HIPERFIT 2011 workshop will be held at the University of
Copenhagen, North Campus, in the HCØ building next to the Department
of Computer Science (DIKU) - a [map can be found at the department
pages](http://www.diku.dk/english/contact/findvej_kopi_kopi). Please
follow the signs saying "2nd HIPERFIT Workshop" when approaching the
DIKU building.

We are looking forward to seeing you at the workshop.

Best regards from HIPERFIT