---
layout: post
title: "Center Manager Position and PhD and Postdoc Positions"
category: news
tags: [job, center manager, postdoc position, phd position]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

In cooperation with our host institution [DIKU](http://www.diku.dk),
the HIPERFIT research center is hiring.

We wish to fill the following positions until September
2011:

### 6 PhD scholars or Postdoctoral researchers

These positions are 3 year research positions within our research
center. PhD project duration can be 4 years if the candidate holds a
bachelor degree instead of a master's degree. The announcement is
deliberately flexible in order to encourage a larger group of
applicants, e.g. positions are divided into the four research areas
and into postdoctoral and PhD positions following the quality and
preference of the received applications.

The PhD projects and postdoctoral research will be carried out at
either DIKU, IMF or NBI under the supervision of senior HIPERFIT
researchers. Successful candidates must have a solid academic
background within at least one of the 4 research areas of HIPERFIT, as
demonstrated by graduate level courses and/or project and thesis work
in respective relevant fields, and interdisciplinary interest in (at
least) one of the other research areas in question.

Please find more details about the positions on the department's web
pages.

Applications must be submitted by e-mail to <suntonn@diku.dk> (Subject:
PhD Scholarship/Postdoctoral Research Position, HIPERFIT research
area) and be received no later than **July 4, 2011 at 12.00 local
Danish time.**

In case of questions, please contact the center director, Professor
Fritz Henglein, at <henglein@diku.dk>, or one of our research area
managers, as stated in the full announcement.

### 1 Assistant or Associate Professor, as the HIPERFIT Center Manager

This is a permanent position with the Department of Computer Science
(DIKU) at the University of Copenhagen, including research,
supervision and training of research fellows, teaching, and other
tasks requested by the Department. In the first 5 years of the
appointment, the candidate will - apart from performing research,
teaching and developing his/her own field - collaborate with the
center director and the research area managers to attend to the center
obligations: manage formulation, follow-up and achievement of project
plans, organise center activities, communicate with interested
parties, interact with partners, and potentially acquire additional
external funding of research
activities. 

The successful applicant will have a PhD in computer science,
mathematics, statistics, physics or similar, and documented scientific
expertise in at least one of the following HIPERFIT research areas:
domain-specific languages (DSLs), functional programming (FP) and
high-performance systems (HPS), and a scientific and professional
interest in the other research areas. In addition, applicants should
have research project management skills, preferrably documented by
previous experience with project and/or center
administration/management. Furthermore, the candidate must have good
English language skills and should be fluent, or within a half year
become fluent, in Danish.

Please find more details for these announcements on the department's
web pages.

The application must be submitted by e-mail to
<science-position@science.ku.dk> (Subject: Your last name,
**211-0324**) and be received no later than **July 4, 2011
at 12.00 noon local Danish time.**

In case of questions, please contact the center director, Professor
Fritz Henglein, at <henglein@diku.dk>, or one of our research area
managers, as stated in the full announcement.