---
layout: post
title: "Manuel Chakravarty"
category: news
tags: [visit, Manuel Chakravarty]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

We were happy to host [Manuel
Chakravarty](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak), Professor of Computer
Science in the University of New South Wales (Sydney), between July 11
and 13, 2011. Manuel has been working on Data-Parallel Haskell for
more than 10 years and is a driving force behind several strands of
development in parallel array processing in Haskell.

During his stay, Manuel gave a DIKU talk on data parallelism using
Haskell, motivating both the use of functional programming as well as
the appeal of data parallelism, and illustrating how data parallel
Haskell programs look like in different variants. After this overview
talk, we proceeded with a more technical talk about the GPU-enabled
Haskell array library `Data.Array.Accelerate`, as a special issue of the
HIPERFIT seminar.

_Manuel M T Chakravarty is an Associate Professor at the University of
New South Wales, Sydney. His main research interests are in functional
programming languages, novel compiler technology, and parallel
programming. He graduated from the University of Karlsruhe and
received a doctoral degree from the Technical University of Berlin._

_He contributed to Haskell's foreign function interface, the theory
and implementation of type families, and the design and realisation of
Data Parallel Haskell, an implementation of nested data parallelism in
the Glasgow Haskell Compiler. He receives his inspiration from
combining theory with practice._