---
layout: post
title: "Center Manager Position"
category: news
tags: [job, center manager]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

In cooperation with our host institution [DIKU](http://www.diku.dk), the HIPERFIT research center
announces the following position:

[1 Assistant or Associate Professor, as the HIPERFIT Center
Manager](http://www.offentlige-stillinger.dk/web/cfml/framesetvisjob.cfm?englishJobs=NO&amp;nJobNo=198458&amp;nLangNo=1&amp;home=1&amp;nDataSet=1&amp;nRegionNo=3&amp;nBusArNo=-1&amp;nCateNo=-1&amp;nPubNo=-1&amp;sJobRef=&amp;sFreeTextSearch=&amp;advanced=NO)

This is a permanent position with the Department of Computer Science
(DIKU) at the University of Copenhagen, including research,
supervision and training of research fellows, teaching, and other
tasks requested by the Department. In the first 5 years of the
appointment, the candidate will - apart from performing research,
teaching and developing his/her own field - collaborate with the
center director and the research area managers to attend to the center
obligations: manage formulation, follow-up and achievement of project
plans, organise center activities, communicate with interested
parties, interact with partners, and potentially acquire additional
external funding of research
activities.

The successful applicant will have a PhD in computer science,
mathematics, statistics, physics or similar, and documented scientific
expertise in at least one of the following HIPERFIT research areas:
domain-specific languages (DSLs), functional programming (FP) and
high-performance systems (HPS), and a scientific and professional
interest in the other research areas. In addition, applicants should
have research project management skills, preferably documented by
previous experience with project and/or center
administration/management. Furthermore, the candidate must have good
English language skills and should be fluent, or within a half year
become fluent, in Danish.

The application must be submitted by e-mail to
[science-position@science.ku.dk](mailto:science-position@science.ku.dk)
(Subject: Your last name, **211-0324**) and be received no later than
**September 6**, **2011 at 12.00 noon local Danish time.** Please see
the [full announcement at
www.offentlige-stillinger.dk](http://www.offentlige-stillinger.dk/web/cfml/framesetvisjob.cfm?englishJobs=NO&amp;nJobNo=198458&amp;nLangNo=1&amp;home=1&amp;nDataSet=1&amp;nRegionNo=3&amp;nBusArNo=-1&amp;nCateNo=-1&amp;nPubNo=-1&amp;sJobRef=&amp;sFreeTextSearch=&amp;advanced=NO)
for the required application material and more details. In case of
questions, please contact the center director, Professor Fritz
Henglein, at <henglein@diku.dk>.