---
layout: post
title: "ICFP 2012 in Copenhagen"
category: news
tags: [icfp]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

ICFP Is the leading international conference on functional programming
(FP). Finance has internationally emerged as a strategic and rapidly
growing application domain for FP. After Edinburgh, Baltimore and
Tokyo in 2009-2011, ICFP takes place in Copenhagen this year,
organized locally by the HIPERFIT team at DIKU. We'd like to draw your
attention to specifically CUFP and FHPC (see below), which target
industrial uses and users of FP. These events represent a unique
opportunity of getting access to FP-based technology and innovation
trends. Could you please forward the enclosed information to those of
your colleagues who might be interested in taking advantage of this
possibility. (Please feel free to direct questions to [Fritz Henglein](mailto:henglein@diku.dk).

## ICFP 2012 @ Copenhagen

Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Twitter, Credit Suisse, Standard
Chartered, Jane Street Capital, SimCorp, Lexifi and many others are
sponsoring ICFP 2012 in Copenhagen -- why would leading IT and Finance
companies do such a thing? 

## What is ICFP?

The **International Conference on Functional Programming** is the
premier conference series for cutting-edge scientific and industrial
work in **functional programming**. ICFP 2012 will take place in the
heart of **Copenhagen**, September 9-15. It is arranged by the
**University of Copenhagen** under the auspices of **ACM**, the
world's oldest and largest organization of computing researchers and
professionals. With its **14 colocated workshops and tutorials**,
ranging from foundational computer science via high-profile industrial
applications to hands-on tutorials by the international Who's-Who of
functional programming, ICFP 2012 will be **the** gathering ground of
FP researchers and professionals from around the globe.

## What is functional programming?

Functional programming is based on the notion of transformation rather
than machine state update. It is solidly based on **logic**, has
pioneered **technologies** that have subsequently seen widespread
adoption in other languages (garbage collection, type inference,
language-integrated querying and others), incorporates the most
advanced compilation technology in a variety of **industrial-strength
programming languages** (F#, OCaml, Haskell, Scala, etc.). It has
found strategic applications in **finance** (such as quantitative
finance and high-frequency trading), **telecommunication** (such as
telephone switches), **web systems** (massively scalable web systems)
and other domains due to its built-in support for **domain-specific
modeling**, **safety**, **scalability**, and **hardware
independence**.

## Why participate in ICFP 2012?

You get to hear about research, development and practice trends from
"the horse's mouth" and mingle with the world-leading researchers and
commercial FP practitioners. At the Commercial Users of Functional
Programming (CUFP) tutorials you can learn hot FP languages and
technologies such as F#, Scala, Haskell from the leading experts. You
can hear about Finance IT applications both at the CUFP workshop and
the Functional High-Performance Computing (FHPC) workshop. The
latter has finance as its focus area and serves as the 4th HIPERFIT
workshop.

## What to do?

It is easy to register for participation at ICFP: Go to the
Registration page at
[icfpconference.org/icfp2012](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2012) and
follow instructions.

**Important**: Early registration deadline with **discounted**
registration fees is **August 9th, 2012**.

For more information on ICFP, see
[http://icfpconference.org](http://icfpconference.org); for more on
ICFP 2012, see
[http://icfpconference.org/icfp2012](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2012),
for more on CUFP, see [cufp.org](cufp.org), for more on ACM, see
[http://acm.org](http://acm.org), for more on University of
Copenhagen, see [http://diku.dk](http://diku.dk) (Department of
Computer Science), and [http://ku.dk](http://ku.dk).

On behalf of the DIKU HIPERFIT team,

Fritz Henglein