---
layout: post
title: "PhD Defence: Simon A F Lund"
category: news
tags: [talk, Simon A F Lund, phd defence]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

_Title:_ A High Performance Backend for Array-Oriented Programming on Next-Generation Processing Units

_Presenter:_ Simon A F Lund, PhD. Student, NBI/University of Copenhagen

_Time:_ Thursday, December 10, 2015, 10:00

_Place:_ Aud D, NBI, Blegdamsvej 17

_Committee:_ 

- Prof. Dr. Stig Skelboe, UCPH
- Prof. Dr. Siegfried Benkner, University of Vienna
- Associate Professor John Markus Bjørndalen, University of Tromsø

## Abstract

The financial crisis, which started in 2008, spawned the HIPERFIT
research center as a preventive measure against future financial
crises. The goal of prevention is to be met by improving mathematical
models for finance, the verifiable description of them in
domain-specific languages and the efficient execution of them on high
performance systems.

This work investigates the requirements for, and the implementation
of, a high performance backend supporting these goals. This involves
an outline of the hardware available today, in the near future and how
to program it for high performance. The main challenge is to bridge
the gaps between performance, productivity and portability.

A declarative high-level array-oriented programming model is explored
to achieve this goal and a backend implemented to support
it. Different strategies to the backend design and application of
optimizations are analyzed and experimentally tested. Resulting in the
design and implementation of Bohrium a runtime-system for
transforming, scheduling and executing array-oriented programs.

Multiple interfaces for existing languages such as Python, C++, C#,
and F# have been built which utilize the backend. A suite of benchmark
applications, implemented in these languages, demonstrate the
high-level declarative form of the programming model. Performance
studies show that the high-level declarative programming model can be
used to not only match but also exceed the performance of hand-coded
implementations in low-level languages.

## Biography

Simon A F Lund is a PhD student at NBI under supervision of Prof. Brian Vinter.

_Host:_ NBI and HIPERFIT (Prof. Brian Vinter)