---
layout: post
title: "Nessie"
category: news
tags: [talk, John Reppy, Nessie]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## HIPERFIT Seminar Talk

_Title:_ Nessie: A NESL to CUDA Compiler

_Presenter:_ John Reppy, Computation Institute, University of Chicago

_Time:_ Wednesday, November 14th, 2016, 13:15-15:00

_Place:_ Universitetsparken 1, Small Auditorium, University of Copenhagen.

## Abstract:

Modern GPUs provide supercomputer-level performance at commodity
prices, but they are notoriously hard to program. To address this
problem, we have been exploring the use of Nested Data Parallelism
(NDP), and specifically Guy Blelloch's first-order functional language
NESL, as a way to raise the level of abstraction for programming GPUs.
Preliminary results suggest that NDP can be effectively mapped onto
GPUs, but there is significant work required to make this mapping
competitive with hand-written GPU code.  This talk describes ongoing
work on a new compiler for the NESL language that generates CUDA code.
Specifically, we will describe several aspects of the compiler that
address some of the challenges of generating efficient NDP code for
GPUs.

_Notice:_ The presentation is part of the course on [Parallel Functional Programming (PFP)](https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/2654/modules) at DIKU.

## Biography

John Reppy is a Professor of Computer Science and a Senior Fellow of
the Computation Institute at the University of Chicago. He received
his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1992 and spent the first eleven
years of his career at Bell Labs in Murray Hill NJ. He has been
exploring issues in language design and implementation since the late
1980's, with a focus on higher-order, typed, functional languages. His
work includes the invention of Concurrent ML and work on combining
object-oriented and functional language features. His current research
is on high-level languages for parallel programming, including the
Manticore and Diderot projects.

_Host:_ Martin Elsman, DIKU, HIPERFIT.
