---
layout: post
title: "PhD Defence: Troels Blum"
category: news
tags: [talk, TroelsBlum, phd defence]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

_Title:_ Automatic Parallelization of Scientific Applications

_Presenter:_ Troels Blum, PhD. Student, NBI/University of Copenhagen

_Time:_ Thursday, January 4, 2016, 10:00-13:00

_Place:_ Aud A, NBI, Blegdamsvej 17

_Committee:_ 

- Prof. Dr. Stig Skelboe, UCPH
- Kevin Chalmers, Edinburgh Napier University, UK
- Jan Bækgaard Pedersen, UNLV, USA

## Abstract

In my PhD work I show that it is possible to run unmodified
Python/NumPy code on modern GPUs. This is done by using the Bohrium
runtime system to translate the NumPy array operations into an array
based bytecode sequence. Executing these byte-codes on two GPUs from
different vendors shows great performance gains.

Scientists working with computer simulations should be allowed to focus
on their field of research and not spend excessive amounts of time
learning exotic programming models and languages. We have with 
Bohrium achieved very promising results by starting out with a
relatively simple approach. This has lead to more specialized
methods as I have shown with the work done with both specialized, and
parametrizied kernels. Both have their benefits and recognizable use
cases. We achieved clear performance benefits without any significant
negative impact on overall application performance. Even in the cases
where we were not able to gain any performance boost by specialization,
the added cost, for kernel generation and extra bookkeeping, is
minimal.

Many of the lessons learned developing and optimizing the Bohrium GPU
vector engine has proven to be valuable in a broader perspective,
which has made it possible to generalize the developments and made
them benefit the complete Bohrium project.

## Biography

Troels Blum is a PhD student at NBI under supervision of Prof. Brian Vinter.

_Host:_ NBI and HIPERFIT (Prof. Brian Vinter)