---
layout: post
title: "Chapel: Parallel Programmability from Desktops to Supercomputers"
category: news
tags: [talk, Brad Champerlain, Chapel]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## HIPERFIT Seminar Talk

_Title:_ Chapel: Parallel Programmability from Desktops to Supercomputers.

_Presenter:_ Brad Chamberlain, Principal Engineer, Cray Inc.

_Time:_ Thursday, February 4, 2016, 15:15-16:15

_Place:_ DIKU Building, Small Auditorium, UP1, Universitetsparken 1, University of Copenhagen.

## Abstract:

Chapel (http://chapel.cray.com) is an emerging open-source language
whose goal is to vastly improve the programmability of parallel
systems while also enhancing generality and portability compared to
conventional techniques.  Chapel is seeing growing levels of interest
not only among HPC users, but also in the data analytic, academic, and
mainstream programming communities.  Chapel's design and
implementation are portable and open-source, supporting a wide variety
of compute platforms, from desktops (Mac, Linux, *nix) to commodity
clusters, the cloud, and large-scale systems developed by Cray and
other vendors.

In this talk, I'll start by providing motivation and context for
Chapel before giving an overview of its unique feature set.  I'll also
describe the status and organization of the Chapel project itself,
highlighting opportunities for collaboration.

## Biography

Brad Chamberlain is a Principal Engineer at Cray Inc. where he works
on parallel programming models, focusing primarily on the design and
implementation of the Chapel language in his role as technical lead
for that project.  Brad received his Ph.D. in Computer Science &
Engineering from the University of Washington in 2001 where his work
focused on the design and implementation of the ZPL parallel array
language.  His thesis explored the concept of 'regions' --- a
first-class index set supporting global-view data parallelism and a
syntactic performance model.  Brad remains associated with the
University of Washington as an affiliate professor.  He received his
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science with honors from Stanford
University in 1992.

_Hosts:_ Martin Elsman, DIKU and Brian Vinter, NBI.

_Everyone is welcome!_ Beers, soda, and snacks will be served after the talk.