---
layout: post
title: "PhD Defence: Simon Ellersgaard Nielsen"
category: news
tags: [talk, Simon Ellersgaard Nielsen, phd defence]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

_Title:_ Essays on Rational Portfolio Theory

_Presenter:_ Simon Ellersgaard Nielsen, PhD. Student, Math/University of Copenhagen

_Time:_ February 29, 2016, 15:15

_Place:_ HCØ, Auditorium 4, Universitetsparken 5, 2100 Copenhagen Ø

_Committee:_ 

- Prof. Mogens Steffensen (chairman), MATH, University of Copenhagen

- Prof. Nicole Branger, University of Muenster

- Prof. Claus Munk, Copenhagen Business School

## Abstract

This dissertation is a potpourri of articles on the topics of model
risk and optimal portfolio selection in stochastic environments. The
main concerns are:

- Demonstrating the effect of erroneous delta hedging in a
  jump-diffusion economy. What is the nature of the profit-and-loss
  from a theoretical perspective? From an empirical perspective?

- Analysing the method by which the non-linear Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman
  equations should be solved in connection with Merton type
  optimisation problems. A thorough review of the explicit and
  implicit methods is provided in one and more spatial dimensions.

- Exposing the optimal investment ratios for a utility maximising
  investor who trades in bonds and stocks in a stochastic volatility
  environment. Various models are considered, including their effect
  in empirical trading experiments.

- Extending the above analysis to include the derivatives markets. How
  much do the portfolio weights change? What is the effect of hedging
  stochastic volatility per se versus merely including a second asset?
  Is the bond-stock-derivative strategy truly superior when applied to
  real market data?

- Hedging derivatives in a limit order book with the option of placing
  both limit and market orders. Assuming a certain tolerance towards
  deviating from a targeted hedge strategy when should a rational
  investor place which type of order?

Overall, the project strives to strike a careful balance between
theoretical advances and empirical testing of results. An extensive
appendix introducing some of the underlying mathematics is provided.


## Biography

Simon Ellersgaard Nielsen is a PhD student at Math/University of
Copenhagen under supervision of Prof. Rolf Poulsen, Math and
co-supervisor Assoc. Prof. Ken Friis Larsen, Computer Sciense,
University of Copenhagen.

_Host:_ Math and HIPERFIT (Prof. Rolf Poulsen)