---
layout: post
title: "ConCert: A Smart Contract Certification Framework in Coq"
category: news
tags: [talk, Danil Annenkov]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## HIPERFIT Talk: "ConCert: A Smart Contract Certification Framework in Coq"

_Presenter:_ Danil Annenkov, Post-doctorial Researcher, the Concordium Blockchain Research Center, Aarhus University

_Time:_ Thursday, December 12, 2019, 09:30-10:15

_Place:_ PLTC Meeting Room (HCØ-01-0-029), HCØ, Universitetsparken 5, University of Copenhagen.

## Abstract:

Modern smart contract languages for blockchains tend to employ the
functional programming paradigm. This fact makes them perfect targets
for embedding into proof assistants allowing for convenient reasoning
about their properties. But we are also interested in the meta-theory
of smart contract languages and would like to have strong correctness
guarantees for the embedding. We introduce ConCert: a framework
allowing for both deep (AST) and shallow (Coq functions) embeddings of
a smart contract language along with the soundness theorem connecting
the two embeddings. The framework also features an execution model
that enables reasoning about safety and temporal properties of
interacting smart contracts. As an application of the developed
framework, we show how to verify programs in Acorn - functional smart
contract for the Concordium blockchain.

The developed techniques could be applied to the verification of
programs in various (not necessarily smart contract) functional
languages.

Joint work with Bas Spitters and Jakob Botsch Nielsen.

## Biography

Danil Annenkov is a postdoc researcher at the Concordium Blockchain
Research Center, Aarhus University working on formal verification of
smart contracts. His research areas include programming language
semantics, formal verification, proof assistants and type
theory. Danil Annenkov received his PhD degree in Computer Science
from the University of Copenhagen in 2018. After receiving his PhD
degree, Annenkov was a postdoc researcher at INRIA Nantes, France,
where he worked on extending the Coq proof assistant with new
reasoning principles.

_Host:_ Martin Elsman